# RFC7230 - Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/1.1)

## Intermediaries

- Proxy
- Gateway - *a.k.a. Reverse Proxy*
- Tunnel  
	A "tunnel" acts as a blind relay between two connections without changing the messages. Once active, a tunnel is not considered a party to the HTTP communication.

> HTTP is defined as a stateless protocol, meaning that each request message can be understood in isolation.

## Protocol Versionning

```
'HTTP-version' ::= 'HTTP-name' "/" 'DIGIT' "." 'DIGIT'
'HTTP-name' = %x48.54.54.50 ; "HTTP" ; case-sensitive
```

**Intermediaries that process HTTP messages (i.e., all intermediaries other than those acting as tunnels) MUST send their own HTTP-version in forwarded messages.**
In other words, they are not allowed to blindly forward the first line of an HTTP message without ensuring that the protocol version in that message matches a version to which that intermediary is conformant for both the receiving and sending of messages.

A server can send a **505 (HTTP Version Not Supported)** response if it wishes, for any reason, to refuse service of the client’s major protocol version.

## Uniform Ressource Identifier

```
`absolute-path` = 1*( "/" `segment` )
`partial-URI` = `relative-part` [ "?" `query` ]
```
**Unless otherwise indicated, URI references are parsed relative to the effective request URI**

```
OWS = *( SP / HTAB )  ; optional whitespace
RWS = 1*( SP / HTAB ) ; required whitespace
BWS = OWS             ; "bad" whitespace
```

### http URI Scheme

```
`http-URI` = "http:" "//" `authority` `path-abempty` [ "?" `query` ] [ "#" `fragment` ]
```

> ```
>`authority `= [ `userinfo` "@" ] `host` [ ":" `port` ]
> `path` ::= `path-abempty`  ; begins with "/" or is empty
>         |  ...
>```

A sender MUST NOT generate an "http" URI with an empty host identifier. A recipient that processes such a URI reference MUST reject it as invalid.

If the port subcomponent is empty or not given, TCP port 80 (the reserved port for WWW services) is the default.

Before making use of an "http" URI reference received from an untrusted source, a recipient SHOULD parse for userinfo and treat its presence as an error; it is likely being used to obscure the authority for the sake of phishing attacks.

### URI Normalization and Comparison

- The scheme and host are case-insensitive and normally provided in lowercase;
- all other components are compared in a case-sensitive manner.
- Characters other than those in the "reserved" set are equivalent to their percent-encoded octets:

For example, the following three URIs are equivalent:
> http://example.com:80/˜smith/home.html
> http://EXAMPLE.com/%7Esmith/home.html
> http://EXAMPLE.com:/%7esmith/home.html


## Message Format

```
HTTP-message ::= start-line
                 *( header-field CRLF )
                 CRLF
                 [ message-body ]
```

The normal procedure for parsing an HTTP message is to read the start-line into a structure, read each header field into a hash table by field name until the empty line, and then use the parsed data to determine if a message body is expected. If a message body has been indicated, then it is read as a stream until an amount of octets equal to the message body length is read or the connection is closed.

A sender MUST NOT send whitespace between the start-line and the first header field. A recipient that receives whitespace between the start-line and the first header field MUST either reject the message as invalid or consume each whitespace-preceded line without further processing of it (i.e., ignore the entire line, along with any subsequent lines preceded by whitespace, until a properly formed header field is received or the header section is terminated).

## Start Line

In practice, servers are implemented to only expect a request (a response is interpreted as an unknown or invalid request method)

```
`start-line` ::= `start-line`
              |  `status-line`
```

### Request Line

```
`start-line` ::= `method` SP `request-target` SP `HTTP-version` CRLF
```

Recipients typically parse the request-line into its component parts by splitting on whitespace (see Section 3.5), since no whitespace is allowed in the three components. Unfortunately, some user agents fail to properly encode or exclude whitespace found in hypertext references.

Recipients of an invalid request-line SHOULD respond with either a  400 (Bad Request) error or a 301 (Moved Permanently) redirect with the request-target properly encoded. A recipient SHOULD NOT attempt to autocorrect and then process the request without a redirect.

 - A server that receives a method longer than any that it implements SHOULD respond with a 501 (Not Implemented) status code.
 - A server that receives a request-target longer than any URI it wishes to parse MUST respond with a 414 (URI Too Long) status code
 - It is RECOMMENDED that all HTTP senders and recipients support, at a minimum, request-line lengths of **8000 octets**.

### Status Line

```
`status-line` = `HTTP-version` SP `status-code` SP `reason-phrase` CRLF
```

## Header Fields

```
`header-field` = `field-name` ":" OWS `field-value` OWS
```

- No whitespace is allowed between the header field-name and colon.
	- A server MUST reject any received request message that contains whitespace between a header field-name and colon with a response code of 400 (Bad Request).
	- A proxy MUST remove any such whitespace from a response message before forwarding the message downstream.
- A proxy MUST forward unrecognized header fields unless the field-name is listed in the Connection header field (Section 6.1) or the proxy is specifically configured to block, or otherwise transform, such fields.
- Other recipients SHOULD ignore unrecognized header fields.
- A server MUST NOT apply a request to the target resource until the entire request header section is received.
- A recipient MAY combine multiple header fields with the same field name into one "field-name: field-value" pair, without changing the semantics of the message, by appending each subsequent field value to the combined field value in order, separated by a comma. The order in which header fields with the same field name are received is therefore significant to the interpretation of the combined field value; 
	- a proxy MUST NOT change the order of these field values when forwarding a message.
	- recipients ought to handle "Set-Cookie" as a special case while processing header fields.
- A server that receives a request header field, or set of fields, larger than it wishes to process MUST respond with an appropriate 4xx (Client Error) status code.

### Field Value Component

- A string of text is parsed as a single value if it is quoted using double-quote marks.
- The backslash octet ("\") can be used as a single-octet quoting mechanism within quoted-string and comment constructs.

## Message Body

### Request
The presence of a message body in a request is signaled by a `Content-Length` or `Transfer-Encoding` header field.

### Response
- Responses to the HEAD request method (Section 4.3.2 of [RFC7231]) never include a message body because the associated response header fields (e.g., Transfer-Encoding, Content-Length, etc.), if present, indicate only what their values would have been if the request method had been GET (Section 4.3.1 of [RFC7231]).
- 2xx (Successful) responses to a CONNECT request method (Section 4.3.6 of [RFC7231]) switch to tunnel mode instead of having a message body.
- All 1xx (Informational), 204 (No Content), and 304 (Not Modified) responses do not include a message body.
- All other responses do include a message body, although the body might be of zero length.

### Transfer-Encoding
The Transfer-Encoding header field lists the transfer coding names corresponding to the sequence of transfer codings that have been (or will be) applied to the payload body in order to form the message body.

```
`Transfer-Encoding` = chunked
```

Unlike `Content-Encoding` (Section 3.1.2.1 of [RFC7231]), `Transfer-Encoding` is a property of the message, not of the representation.

- `Transfer-Encoding` MAY be sent in a response to a HEAD request or in a 304 (Not Modified) response to a GET request, neither of which includes a message body, to indicate that the origin server would have applied a transfer coding to the message boy if the request had been an unconditional GET.
- A server MUST NOT send a `Transfer-Encoding` header field in any response with a status code of 1xx (Informational) or 204 (No Content). 
- A server MUST NOT send a `Transfer-Encoding` header field in any 2xx (Successful) response to a CONNECT request.
- A server that receives a request message with a transfer coding it does not understand SHOULD respond with 501 (Not Implemented).
- If a `Transfer-Encoding` header field is present in a request and the chunked transfer coding is not the final encoding, the message body length cannot be determined reliably; the server MUST respond with the 400 (Bad Request) status code and then close the connection.
- If a message is received with both a `Transfer-Encoding` and a `Content-Length` header field, the `Transfer-Encoding` overrides the `Content-Length`.
- All transfer-coding names are case-insensitive.

### Content-Length

- A user agent SHOULD send a `Content-Length` in a request message when no `Transfer-Encoding` is sent and the request method defines a meaning for an enclosed payload body. 
	- For example, a `Content-Length` header field is normally sent in a POST request even when the value is 0 (indicating an empty payload body).
	- A user agent SHOULD NOT send a `Content-Length` header field when the request message does not contain a payload body and the method semantics do not anticipate such a body.
- A server MAY send a `Content-Length` header field in a response to a HEAD request.
- A server MAY send a `Content-Length` header field in a 304 (Not Modified) response to a conditional GET request.
- A server MUST NOT send a `Content-Length` header field in any response with a status code of 
	- 1xx (Informational) or 204 (No Content).
	- 2xx  (Successful) response to a CONNECT request.
- in the absence of `Transfer-Encoding`, an origin server SHOULD send a `Content-Length`.
- If a message is received without `Transfer-Encoding` and with either multiple `Content-Length` header fields having differing	field-values or a single `Content-Length` header field having an invalid value, the server MUST respond with a 400 (Bad Request) status code and then close the connection.
- If this is a response message received by a proxy, the proxy MUST close the connection to the server, discard the received response, and send a 502 (Bad Gateway) response to the client.
- If the sender closes the connection or the recipient times out before the indicated number of octets are received, the recipient MUST consider the message to be incomplete and close the connection.
- A server MAY reject a request that contains a message body but not a `Content-Length` by responding with 411 (Length Required).


### Message Parsing Robustness

- In the interest of robustness, a server that is expecting to receive and parse a request-line SHOULD ignore at least one empty line (CRLF) received prior to the request-line.
- A recipient MAY recognize a single LF as a line terminator and ignore any preceding CR.
- When a server listening only for HTTP request messages, receives a sequence of octets that does not match the HTTP-message the server SHOULD respond with a 400 (Bad Request) response.

## Chunked Transfer Coding 
The chunked transfer coding wraps the payload body in order to  transfer it as a series of chunks, each with its own size indicator,  followed by an OPTIONAL trailer containing header fields.

```
`chunked-body` ::= *`chunk`
                 `last-chunk`
                ` trailer-part` ; OSEF
                 CRLF

`chunk`       ::= `chunk-size` [ `chunk-ext`  ; OSEF ] CRLF `chunk-data` CRLF
`last-chunk`  ::= 1*("0") [ `chunk-ext`  ; OSEF ] CRLF
`chunk-data`  ::= 1*OCTET ; 
```
- The chunk-size field is a string of **hex digits** indicating the size of the chunk-data in octets.
- The chunked transfer coding is complete when a chunk with a chunk-size of zero is received, possibly followed by a trailer, and finally terminated by an empty line.

### Chunk Extensions - OSEF

```
`chunk-ext`      ::= *( ";" `chunk-ext-name` [ "=" `chunk-ext-val` ] )
`chunk-ext-name` ::= token
`chunk-ext-val`  ::= token / quoted-string
```
- The chunked encoding is specific to each connection. Use of chunk extensions is generally limited to specialized HTTP services.

### Chunked Trailer Part - OSEF
A trailer allows the sender to include additional fields at the end of a chunked message in order to supply metadata that might be dynamically generated while the message body is sent
```
`trailer-part` ::= *( `header-field` CRLF )
```
- A sender MUST NOT generate a trailer that contains a field necessary for 
	- message framing (e.g., Transfer-Encoding and Content-Length),
	- routing (e.g., Host),
	- request modifiers (e.g., controls and conditionals in Section 5 of [RFC7231]),
	- authentication (e.g., see [RFC7235] and [RFC6265]),
	- response control data (e.g., see Section 7.1 of [RFC7231]),
	- or determining how to process the payload (e.g., Content-Encoding, Content-Type, Content-Range, and Trailer).
- When a chunked message containing a non-empty trailer is received, the recipient MAY process the fields (aside from those forbidden above) as if they were appended to the message’s header section.
- A recipient MUST ignore (or consider as an error) any fields that are forbidden to be sent in a trailer.
- Unless the request includes a TE header field indicating "trailers" is acceptable, as described in Section 4.3, a server SHOULD NOT generate trailer fields

### Decoding Chunked
A process for decoding the chunked transfer coding can be represented in pseudo-code as:
```
length := 0
read chunk-size, chunk-ext (if any), and CRLF
while (chunk-size > 0)
{
	read chunk-data and CRLF
	append chunk-data to decoded-body
	length := length + chunk-size
	read chunk-size, chunk-ext (if any), and CRLF
}
read trailer field
while (trailer field is not empty)
{
	if (trailer field is allowed to be sent in a trailer)
		append trailer field to existing header fields
	read trailer-field
}
Content-Length := length
Remove "chunked" from Transfer-Encoding
Remove Trailer from existing header fields
``
